[MUSIC PLAYING]
CHRIS RAMSDALE: I'm Chris
Ramsdale, Lead Product
Manager for the Google
Assistant SDK for devices.
GLEN SHIRES: And I'm
Glen Shires, Technical
Lead for Google Assistant SDK.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: So
today, we're going
to talk to you about
a couple of things.
At the core, we're going to
talk to you about our software
development kit that allows
you to embed the Google
Assistant into hardware
devices and how
to use that SDK to extend
the Assistant to work
with the features and
functionality of your devices.
So just to calibrate a little
bit, last year at Google I/O,
we launched the initial version
of our Google Assistant SDK
for devices that does
just what I said--
allows you to
embed the Assistant
experiences into the devices
that you're building.
Whether you're a prototyper,
a maker, or a commercial OEM,
this is the technology used
to actually get those features
and functionality
into your hardware.
And to frame the conversation
a little bit so you can get--
because it's an ecosystem,
and there's a platform,
and there's things involved.
So let's talk a
little bit before we
go deeper into how this
relates to the other pieces
of technology that
we're building.
So at the core, in the middle
here is the Assistant service.
This is the artificial
intelligence and the machine
learning, the AI and
the ML that's actually
powering the virtual assistant
that is inside your home,
hopefully, if you have a
Google Home or a Google Mini
or a JBL speaker,
whatever it might be.
That's at the core.
And that we've been building
for years and years and years.
That's basically the
evolution of search
and other functionality that
we've been building at Google.
Then we talk about
ways of extending it.
So one way of extending it
is bringing third-party cloud
services to the Assistant.
So that's Actions on Google.
And there's several
sessions about that going on
throughout I/O. And
that's how you bring
those services to the
Assistant so you can do things
like order a pizza,
book a ride, and how
you can extend the things that
we're not necessarily doing.
So we might provide calendar
and GO and things like that,
but other people are providing
those services-- again,
ordering a pizza,
ordering a ride.
Then the other way of
extending the Assistant
is bringing that Assistant
experience to hardware devices.
And that's where we come in.
And that's what we're
going to talk about today.
That's using the Google
Assistant SDK for devices.
So to give-- again, in framing,
let's talk a little bit
about what people are
using this SDK for.
So we'll talk first
about commercial OEMs.
So recently at the Consumer
Electronics Show in January,
we announced integration
with the LG TV.
So we brought the Assistant to
the experience inside the TV.
Literally you're talking to
the push button on the remote.
Invokes the Assistant
on the TV and then
helps you out with
everything from what's my day
look like to finding
media inside the TV.
And the nice thing
about this is--
as we go a little bit
deeper into what the SDK is,
the TV was actually using
our cloud-based API.
And then what LG did was
wrote a very thin client
on top of webOS.
WebOS is their operating system
that's running on those TVs.
And they were able to
do an Over-The-Air, OTA,
update to get onto
the TVs to reach
millions of subscribers
and millions of end
users of their TVs.
So it was nice because
it gave them the ability
to take new technology--
the Google Assistant--
but actually work
with in-market devices
that they already had.
Then we also announced,
back in February,
integration with the Nest
camera, the Nest Cam IQ.
What's nice about
this is two things.
One, the Nest Cams--
what we're finding
is that households that have
bought a camera actually
end up buying multiple cameras.
And what that does is
that starts to give you
this ubiquitous
experience in your house
where you're walking through,
you ask for some help,
and your virtual assistant
actually helps you out
wherever you are when
you need that help.
So it starts to push us
into the direction of, oh,
going from my living room has a
Google Home, or a JBL speaker,
or something like that, to I
actually have the Assistant
streaming throughout my house.
So those were commercial OEMs.
We've also had some fun
experiments with our friends
over at Deeplocal.
So Deeplocal is a creative
agency out of Pittsburgh
that we've worked
with several times
over the past year
and a half to build
some really cool experiments.
So if you were out at
Google I/O last year,
maybe you saw the
Mocktail Mixer that
was out at the front of I/O,
or maybe you saw it on YouTube.
Then in our October
hardware event,
they built a pop-up donut
shop, which is really cool.
You could walk up to it and
engage with the Assistant,
and it would give you donuts.
But then at random, it
would give you, actually,
a Google Mini, which kind
of looks like a donut
without a hole in the middle.
And then they brought that
throughout many states
in America.
At the Consumer Electronics
Show in January,
they did a giant gumball
machine, which was a huge hit.
I think at one
point in time, there
was about a two-hour-long
line of people
coming up and actually
interacting with this thing.
And then over in the Developer
Sandbox, the Assistant
Developer Sandbox--
we have a poster maker that
you can go and interact
with the Assistant and generate
a unique poster that you
can then take home with you.
So not commercial devices,
but still a lot of fun.
And it's really fun to
innovate with that team.
It's also really fun to
innovate with the larger maker
community, which
has been awesome.
This has been a very
long tail of developers
taking our software
development kit
and using it in ways that we
would have never thought of.
So I just highlighted
a few here.
And I want to insert the
YouTube links, actually,
if you want to check them out.
But we've got people building
retro Google Home devices
that are beautiful.
We got a candy dispenser.
We've had a ton of
robots, actually, which
Glen is going to talk a
little bit about as well.
And then we had
one maker actually
embed the Assistant
inside of Mac OS
to bring it to the
actual laptop experience.
So a lot of fun there.
So that's a bit of an
overview and framing.
But I also want to just
jump right into a demo
to let you see what
actually is happening
and let Glen take over
and give you the demo
and then talk
about how it works.
GLEN SHIRES: Yeah.
So as Chris was saying, you
can build the Google Assistant
into all sorts of
types of devices.
And there's also starter
kits that you can get.
For example, the IMX7
is for Android Things.
And we also have one called
the AIY Voice Kit that's
available at several retailers.
And you'll see the URL that
you can see the retailers
and get that at.
What that is is
this cardboard box.
If you look closely, you can
see two microphones as well as,
of course, a speaker.
So we've got the
microphones up here on top,
and we've got the speaker here.
I've got a big battery here.
You can just plug
it into the wall
or whatever you'd like to do.
So inside this cardboard-- the
whole thing comes in the kit.
Inside the cardboard is
a small little computer
called a Raspberry Pi.
And let me show
you how it works.
How long is the
Golden Gate Bridge?
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: The
Golden Gate Bridge
has a length of 8,981 feet.
GLEN SHIRES: So
it's doing better
than I am in terms of
speaking, I presume.
How long is that in meters?
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: One
foot equals 0.035 meter.
GLEN SHIRES: So you've
got the Google Assistant
inside an embedded device.
Turn on hotword.
Word.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Accepting hotword.
GLEN SHIRES: So now I
don't have to trigger it.
And I can simply say, hey
Google, pick a random number
from one to 100.
OK.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: 73.
GLEN SHIRES: Hey Google, how
tall is Mount Kilimanjaro?
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Mount Kilimanjaro
is 19,341 feet tall.
GLEN SHIRES: Hey Google,
turn off hotword.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: Sorry.
I'm not sure how
to help with that.
GLEN SHIRES: OK.
[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
So let me show you
how that works.
So this cardboard box, as
I said, comes from a kit.
It's an AIY do it yourself
kit with everything you need.
And the kit itself connects to
the Google service via Wi-Fi.
There's two different types of
software you can run on this.
The SDK actually supports
two ways that you can run it.
One is a way to run it on almost
any platform, any operating
system, any
programming language.
So you run all your
code directly on here,
and we have sample code
that does exactly that.
In this case, I'm actually
running some Python sample code
on the box that implements the
entire client in that Python
code.
So you've got the entire sample.
The other way, which is when
you say, hey Google, turn off
hotword--
and I'm pressing
my luck, I guess.
The other way when
it's running that way
is using a library that runs
directly on the Assistant--
I'm sorry-- runs
directly on the client.
So we provide the entire
client library, which
includes things like
the hotword detection,
OK Google, as well
as echo cancellation
and a number of other nice
things like timers and alarms.
And that runs on either
Linux or Android Things.
Chris?
CHRIS RAMSDALE: Oh, I think
you had some code in here.
GLEN SHIRES: Yeah.
So let me show you a
little bit about when
you're running the library.
It's actually quite
simple to use.
You can see there
are simple functions
you can call to start it, to
turn the microphone on mute.
You can also-- rather than
starting it with a hotword,
you can start the
interaction programmatically.
And then the next slide
here shows you some
of the events that come out.
On the following slide, we
see a lot of different events
that your code can handle
if you'd like to handle it,
or there's no need to.
Another thing I mentioned--
there are two microphones.
And you may notice that
also on Google Home,
there's only two
microphones on Google Home,
and yet Google Home does a
wonderful job in background
noise, with people speaking to
it from a good distance away.
And the way that we
do that is a technique
we called neural beamforming.
What it does is--
it's very similar to the
way people have two ears,
and they're very good at
picking out speech out of noise.
What we've done is we've
used machine learning
and run this on the server
to get a noise robust far
field experience.
And what that means
is the client side
has minimal processing
power, so we can really
keep the clients low cost.
Back to you, Chris.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: Cool.
So building on what
Glen was talking about,
let's just go in a little
bit deeper into what
the SDK actually provides.
So at the highest level, there
is a cloud-based API that's
built on a gRPC protocol.
So gRPC actually uses
HTTP2 to go back and forth
to give you streaming
support, which is important
when you're actually
doing audio,
because you want it to
be fast, low latency.
The benefit to that API is
that it's available from just
about any platform.
So again, just like the
LG TV example that I gave,
they had webOS.
And we've got a number of
partners that are actually
coming with our own
platforms that are already
out in the market,
and they want to know
how to bring those
platforms to the Assistant.
And so we can create a very
thin client that communicates
with that cloud API.
And out of the box, we provide
what are called gRPC bindings.
Those are those thin clients
that are built on Python,
Node.js, C++, and they run on
either Linux or Android Things
or any platform that
you actually have.
That API is really good for push
button, push to talk support.
So when Glen was with the
box and he pushed the button,
that's actually
invoking a Think client
that's talking to our API.
If you want to have an
experience more like that Nest
Cam where it's hands off--
because those cameras
are typically mounted above you,
in your ceilings and whatnot.
We call them far field or
hands-free experiences.
And they use technologies
like wake word,
or hotword is what you may have
heard, the whole OK Google bit.
To get that experience,
we have client libraries
that are built for Linux,
and specifically Linux
3.18 and above, that give
you that hotword support
and echo cancellation
Glen has mentioned.
And because it's a
software development kit,
obviously there's going to be
docs and samples and tools that
allow you to embed the
Assistant, debug the Assistant,
and test it as well.
And then beyond that,
we have hardware kits.
So Glen had mentioned
the AIY kit over here.
So AIY is a twist on DIY,
so artificial intelligence
done by you.
And then there's also the--
is that the iMX?
GLEN SHIRES: iMX 7 kit, yes.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: So there
are these software kits
that allow you to start going.
And we're going to expand
over time to actually bring
more and more software
on chips, [? SOMs, ?]
to the market for
developers to get up
and going and running
with the Assistant.
So with all that,
framing this again,
our goal is to really to bring
that ubiquitous experience
to everybody.
And we're not going to build
all the hardware out there,
nor are we going to build
all the experiences.
So we've done a fairly good
job with speakers and whatnot,
but there are appliances.
There's auto.
There's things that
are in your bathroom.
And so we are really trying--
why Glen and I get
up in the morning
is actually to come
and figure out,
what are those
user experiences we
want to bring to
market with partners,
be it prototypers or
makers or commercial OEMs,
and then what technology
do we actually have
to build to make that happen.
And when we think about it,
one way to categorize it
is to think about your day.
And this is a
little bit trivial,
but it gives you
an idea that we're
trying to get a holistic
experience from streamlining
your morning when
you want to wake up
and have your
coffee made, or you
want to stream NPR News to
figure out what's going on,
or maybe you don't want
to stream the news.
Then when you've actually moved
from your house to on the go--
oh, I forgot to actually
set the security camera,
I left the garage open,
or if you're coming home
from, say, the
grocery store, and you
want to preheat the
oven to 350 because you
have lasagna that you
need to put in there
when you get there.
And then finally, helping
you relax in the evening--
so everything from, hey, I have
kids, and so no more screen
time for kids.
So turn off the Wi-Fi
in the kid's room,
or turn off the
Wi-Fi in the house,
or dim the lights because we
actually want to watch a movie
or watch TV.
But just trying to figure out
what those user experiences are
that actually add
value to you, and then
figuring out the
technology behind it.
So when it comes to,
actually, integration paths
for doing this-- so if you're
actually building hardware,
there's two paths that we have
coming into the Assistant.
And it's a little bit
of marketing speak.
We call Works With Assistant and
then Assistant Built-in Works
With Assistant is-- if anybody
has like a Phillips Hue
light or Nest Thermostat,
those are Works With devices.
So they can be controlled by any
other device that has Assistant
embedded inside of it.
If you want more
information on that,
tomorrow at 11:30
on Stage 5, they're
going to be talking a
bit more about how you
can integrate with Works With.
Glen and I here are
talking about Built-in,
so the second part, where you're
actually taking the Assistant
and embedding in hardware.
So it's a controller
versus controllee.
You're building a controller,
a device that can actually
control other devices as well
and interact with the Assistant
service for knowledge
queries and things like that.
Let's talk a little bit
about developer benefits
of the Assistant and
the Assistant SDK.
First of all, minimum
hardware requirements.
So as I mentioned, if you're
doing push to talk scenarios
and you want to integrate
with our cloud API,
there's very little that's
needed on the client side.
In fact, it's all up to you.
Whatever you're
running on your client,
you can keep running it.
It's the effect of making a
simple REST call to our service
to integrate.
Beyond that, though,
if you actually
want to integrate and
have hotword detection,
echo cancellation,
and things like
that so you can have that
hands-free experience,
then we still have minimum
hardware requirements.
As Glen had mentioned, we don't
require a massive mic array.
Two mics, and you're good to go.
And we can actually
use neural beamforming
to figure out what you're saying
and do proper hotword detection
and grammar detection.
From a RAM
perspective, it's only
256 megs of RAM required on the
device to get up and running,
and then one core ARMv7
processor to get up
and running.
So we're truly trying
to shrink that down.
And then over time,
we'll start looking
at things like RTOS
and microcontrollers
as we move into the
appliance space.
We have built-in
hotword support,
so you don't have to provide
your own hotword model
or anything like that.
You simply download
our library, put it
on an embedded
Linux-based device,
and you're off to the races.
You've got OK Google, and
everything will pick up.
And Glen had mentioned
and showed you
in code we'll take
care of the rest.
The library will take care
of bringing in the audio,
transmitting it to
us in real time,
and then streaming it
back down the response.
And then as Google
is a global company,
we know that we need to continue
to flesh out our languages
and locale story.
And we've done a great
job since last year moving
into 14 different languages
and locales, as you can see up
on this slide right here.
But we want to see over time to
expand this map to actually get
into other countries.
Because we know that people
that are building-- again,
whether you're a prototyper or
a maker or a commercial OEM,
you need to meet your customers
where they actually are, where
your end users actually are.
And so we're going to continue
putting momentum behind this.
And in terms of actually when
you're a commercial OEM--
as we've learned over the
past 12 months working with LG
and working with Nest
how to go from prototype
to commercialization.
So if you're in
that space and you
are trying to build
a commercial device,
I wanted to give you
an insight into how
it's working right now.
We're still early stages working
with a few commercial OEMs.
Our goal is actually
to be more immersive
and go deep with
them to figure out
what are those right
experiences for their end users
so that we can build the
foundation on which we
can start building more
voice technology on top of.
And so the path
here is-- and I'm
hand-waving over a
few details, but you
start prototyping using
Assistant SDK to build
an idea, to build a concept.
You submit that to
us for a review.
And we'll iterate on
the device itself,
how it fits in the
larger ecosystem, what
are the end user
experiences that you're
trying to bring to market.
If it's all good, we end up
assigning an actual account
manager, a technical
account manager, to you
to help you facilitate
that and move forward.
And then beyond that, you
go into certification,
both in terms of, OK, is the
voice recognition actually
working on the device, does it
meet our marketing guidelines,
is the branding correct,
are we all in good shape.
And then step five--
launch, have a party,
and be good to go.
So that's the path that
we're taking right now.
And over the course of
the next few months,
that's what we're
going to focus on.
And then we're looking towards
really scaling that up in 2019.
OK.
So I'm going to go through
a few new features,
and then we're going
to go back and forth
a little bit on demos, I think.
So since last year,
we've been hard at work,
and we've added a
couple of things.
First of all, we've added
visualization support
to the SDK, so now you can
actually enable your device
and say it's capable
of handling--
it's a display-enabled
device, and it
can handle visualizations.
And you get things back like
knowledge queries, sports
and scores, weather,
personal photos.
I'll let Glen take it here.
GLEN SHIRES: Thank you.
So first off, I want to show
that we have a new developer
tool.
What you're seeing on screen
right there is my Chromebook.
And with this, rather than
using an embedded device,
you can actually use your laptop
with Chrome to test out the SDK
and to get your
application running
and test out
different parameters.
For example, we support,
as Chris was mentioning,
several different languages.
And you can set the parameters
and then just test it out.
For, example, I can say, what's
the weather in San Francisco?
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Currently, in San Francisco,
it's 62 degrees Fahrenheit
and partly cloudy.
Today, it'll be cloudy with
a forecasted high of 62
and a low of 53.
GLEN SHIRES: So this is
not just visual output,
but it's also input in that you
can see some suggestions here.
I could save those
if I wanted to.
Or if I just want
to click on it,
I can find out the
weather for this weekend.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: In
San Francisco, Friday,
it'll be mostly sunny
with a high of 70
and a low of 59
degrees Fahrenheit.
Saturday and Sunday,
it'll be cloudy with lows
in the mid 50s.
Highs will be in the
low 70s Saturday, then
be in the mid 60s on Sunday.
GLEN SHIRES: There we go.
Of course, this can do
things Google Home can do,
such as search.
I can say, who is Larry Page?
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
According to Wikipedia,
Lawrence Edward Page is an
American computer scientist
and internet entrepreneur
who co-founded Google
with Sergey Brin.
GLEN SHIRES: And because
this is a developer tool,
I can also, for example,
look at the request I made.
This is actually a
JSON request that
shows the different
parameters that I sent up
in addition to the audio.
And I can see the responses
that I got back from the server.
You can see the
transcript as it was
forming, as I was speaking it.
It's showing the transcript.
Later on, it's showing
the HTML coming out.
And you see the
audio is actually
being streamed back as well.
But beyond search results, I
can also do personal results.
For example, show me my photos.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: This is what
I found in your Google Photos.
GLEN SHIRES: Sorry.
I wasn't on the right
screen when I did that.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: Here's what
I found in your Google Photos.
GLEN SHIRES: So there we go.
And of course, I
can scroll through,
see the different photos
of a whitewater rafting
trip we did recently
and zoom in full screen.
And so that shows what we can
do with this developer tool as
well as the visual outputs.
So let me show you
how that works.
What we've done here--
let me bring up the slide to
show you how this is working.
What this is doing is
using the service API.
As we said, we can run on
any code, any platform.
So this is running
in JavaScript.
And it's using the Chrome
browser as a client.
The service is generating the
audio response in addition
to HTML5.
And of course, the browser
is displaying the HTML5.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: So in
terms of also new features,
one of the things
that's very important
for us, especially when thinking
about third parties that
are building hardware devices
with a system built in,
is to get parity so that they
can build devices that actually
work just as well,
if not better,
than some of the devices
that Google is building.
So one of the things we lacked
for a long time in the SDK
was the ability to
do notifications,
so to really have the Assistant
service push out updates
to devices.
So in this case, I have a
trivial example of, hey,
Google, ring the dinner bell,
which will ring a dinner
bell to all of your devices.
This also works and helps us out
with things like OTA updates,
so over-the-air updates
when we actually
want to update a language
package, for example,
on a device.
It's very important
that we have that push
notification for them.
And so now we're happy
to add this to the SDK.
We're also making an endeavor
and forays into music.
So we're starting with
news and podcast support
so now you can actually
access those news feeds--
so NPR News, for example,
or your favorite podcast
from Radiolab.
I happen to be a "This
American Life" fan.
And so now you can actually
build third-party devices
that have news and podcast
support built into them.
And I think Glen is going to
show that to us right now.
GLEN SHIRES: Yeah.
So let me demo that for you.
Again, I'll be using
the AIY cardboard box,
and I will simply
say, play the news.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Here's the latest news.
GLEN SHIRES: And it brings
down the file, and--
WINDSOR JOHNSTON: Live from
NPR News in Washington,
I'm Windsor Johnston.
President Trump's--
GLEN SHIRES: Stop news.
The other thing we wanted
to show is notifications.
One thing that you can
do with Google Home,
and you can also do with
other embedded devices,
is have one device
talk to other devices.
So for example, you
could broadcast things,
or you could say something
like, ring the dinner bell.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
OK, broadcasting now.
GLEN SHIRES: So it's
broadcasting from one device
to the other device.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
It's dinner time.
GLEN SHIRES: And so if you want
to call your kids for dinner,
all the devices in your house
can say it's time to come down.
Exactly.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: Tell your
kids it's time to eat.
GLEN SHIRES: So let's
show you how that works.
So again, that notifications
doesn't necessarily
have to be between two cardboard
boxes or two embedded devices.
It's actually between
two Google Assistants
that are logged into
the same account.
So I could actually use my
phone to ring the dinner
bell on an embedded device.
And so that's how
notifications work,
and that's how news works.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: OK.
To round out things
here, one of the features
that I've been
really excited about
is what we're calling
Device Actions.
So when we initially
launched the Google Assistant
SDK, the feedback from
the community was like,
this is great.
This is awesome.
I can build a Google
Home clone now.
How do I make it
do custom things?
And it was nice because
that part of the community
just got it.
They understood
what we were doing,
and they understood where
we should take it as well.
And so this was
one of our answers
to that request,
which is, OK, cool,
let's let you embed
the Assistant,
and then let's let you extend
it to control that device.
And so this breaks down into
two ways of possibly doing this.
We call them Built-in Device
Actions and Custom Device
Actions.
And so just bear
with me for a second,
and I'll go a little
bit deeper into these.
So Built-in Actions
are built on top
of grammars, things you
can say to a device, where
Google curates those.
So a lot of the
home automation--
if you have a Nest device
or a Philips Hue or a Wemo
or whatever it may
be, turn on, turn off,
turn down the temperature,
make it hotter--
these are all grammars-- again,
things you can say to a device
that we curate.
And they're not static.
They're dynamic.
We actually can
change them over time.
We can internationalize
them on your behalf.
So if you're building
a device, you
can leverage our
Built-in Actions
and know that the grammars
that we have there
will continue to grow.
An anecdote that I
like to tell folks
is we were doing good
with home automation,
then we rolled out to the UK.
We didn't see nearly the
traction we saw in the US
when it comes to lighting.
And we didn't know why.
And it turns out that a
lot of people in the UK
would say pop on and
pop off the lights.
Not everybody, but
there was a segment
of the population that would.
And pop on and pop
off was not something
that we had known about.
And so we were able to do
our due diligence, research,
and then change it.
And we changed it
on the back end,
and none of our lighting
partners had to do anything.
It just magically started
working for those UK customers.
Should we have figured
that out firsthand?
Maybe, but that's debatable.
So that's some of the
benefits of actually going
with the built-in route.
Now, all that said--
and while those devices
and grammars and traits
will evolve over
time, again, we're
not going to build every
device, and we're not
going to understand
everything that you
want to do on that device.
And so for that, we
offer Custom Actions
where you as the developer,
you as the device manufacturer,
can provide the grammars and
the commands mapping to us.
And so what you say is,
these are the 10 things
that people can say
to this device model,
and these are the
structured intents,
actual commands that should
come back down to the device.
And then you build the
device drivers on there
to actually do a
dance, do the Macarena,
whatever it may
be on your device.
But it's kind of an
escape hatch right now so
that you can have the
flexibility and customization
that you need to have when
building out your hardware.
So again, keeping
with our theme,
I'm going to kick it to Glen.
GLEN SHIRES: Thank you, Chris.
So yeah, I'd love
to give a demo.
What we're going to
demo here is actually
a toy robot that's specifically
built for prototyping.
And it operates by Bluetooth.
And let me turn on this robot.
And I'll ask my favorite AIY
device, connect to robot.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: Sorry.
I can't help with that yet.
But I'm always learning.
GLEN SHIRES: Let me try this.
Connect to robot.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: Sorry.
I can't help you with that.
I found a few locations
for natural body.
GLEN SHIRES: OK.
Let me try this one.
Sorry.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: The first one
is [INAUDIBLE] Spa at 810 San
Antonio Road in Palo Alto.
The second one is--
GLEN SHIRES: OK.
Let me show you how this
works, and then I'll give that
a shot in just a second.
What this is doing is--
we can switch to the slide.
Thank you.
This is using, again,
the Google service,
but we are implementing
a Custom Device Action
so I can say things
like connect to robot.
And what happens is
the Google service
will understand my
speech and send back
a command to this AIY box.
And the AIY box
will, at that point,
send a Bluetooth command.
It receives JSON
that it can parse.
And if it wants to
connect to robot,
it sends a Bluetooth command
to connect to the robot.
And again, we're
using the same library
that we've used in the past.
We've added a little bit
of code on top of this
to implement the custom actions.
Connect to robot.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT: Sorry.
I'm not sure how
to help with that.
GLEN SHIRES: Geez.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: I can
just keep talking.
GLEN SHIRES: I'll try
it one more time, OK?
Connect to robot.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Connecting robot.
GLEN SHIRES: There we go.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: Nice.
[APPLAUSE]
GLEN SHIRES: OK.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: Hold on.
It gets better.
Trust me.
GLEN SHIRES: The
light did turn green.
Set color red.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Setting robot LED to red.
GLEN SHIRES: So again, it sent
a Bluetooth command to do that.
Robot, get up.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Robot getting up.
GLEN SHIRES: So it's a
self-balancing robot.
Go forward.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Robot moving forward.
GLEN SHIRES: Turn left.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Robot turning left.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: Don't
fall off the table.
GLEN SHIRES: Turn right.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Robot turning right.
GLEN SHIRES: And there we go.
So you can see that we can
control a robot, or we can--
the point of Custom Actions
is you can build an appliance
or anything where you can
actually set your own grammar
and then parse the
commands and have them do
whatever you'd like them to do.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: Awesome.
Good job.
[APPLAUSE]
GLEN SHIRES: So let me
show you, very quickly,
what we're sending up in terms
of Custom Device Actions.
First of all, you can define
these using a lot of the tools
that you may have used
for regular Actions,
regular Assistant Actions,
such as the Actions on Google
tools and also Dialogflow.
What those will generate
are, in this case,
a JSON file that you can
install into your device.
And when your device is talking
directly to the Assistant,
it's not like you have
to say, open my robot app
and tell it to turn right.
You can simply say, turn right.
So the first thing
you would define
is the intent, the
grammar, what you would
say to make something happen.
In this case, for example,
when I said set color red,
here is the intent that
would allow me to say,
set color red; set color to
red; robot, set color red.
So there's a variety
of different ways
that you can say things.
And then on the
next slide, you'll
see what the response
is, the fulfillment.
First of all, I can
define the text to speech.
So in this case, it's saying
setting robot LED to red.
And then the execution,
where I actually
can parse these
parameters-- and I
can see that I'm
setting a color to red.
So that is the way that we
define Custom Device Actions.
We simply parse that
and then translate that
into the commands to
control the robot.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: Cool, thanks.
All right.
So the slide of I'm going to
tell you what I just told you,
the recap--
seriously, we're striving again
for that ubiquitous Assistant
experience in your
life to help you out.
GLEN SHIRES: Robot, get up.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: And we know
that it's going to fueled by--
to be successful,
it's going to be
fueled by a healthy
ecosystem of developers.
So that's all of you in this
room and everybody that's
watching on YouTube right now.
And our goal--
Glen and I, and the team
that's helping us out--
is to provide that software
development kit, those tools
and technologies to
help you build and embed
the Assistant into hardware
devices that you're building.
So with that, I
think if this works,
you might have one more
demo trick up your sleeve.
GLEN SHIRES: Yes, we do.
Do a dance.
GOOGLE ASSISTANT:
Robot is getting down
on the dance floor.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
CHRIS RAMSDALE: All right.
Well done.
GLEN SHIRES: All right.
Thank you very much.
CHRIS RAMSDALE: Thanks.
[APPLAUSE]
Thanks again.
Enjoy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]